+++
categories = []
date = "2016-02-28T19:04:10Z"
draft = false
featureimage = ""
menu = "nav"
weight = 2
tags = []
title = "Coming to therapy"

+++

I believe that asking for help takes a lot of courage and can be a daunting
prospect, so let me tell you a little more of what to expect should you decide
to get in touch. Firstly we can arrange a free initial consultation, by phone
at a mutually agreed time.(or via message or email if you prefer) This will
give me a broad understanding of what you want to work on and whether I can
help. It will also give you the opportunity to ask any questions and get a
sense of whether you feel we can work together before committing to your first
appointment.

Research shows that the success of any therapy experience is very much related
to the quality of the therapeutic relationship and I believe I bring a non
judgemental, warm and kindly approach to sessions, infused with a little
humour!

How many sessions you need to come for very much depends on your problem and
what you've chosen to work on.  CBT is not a quick fix approach, though
relatively short term and Nice Guidelines usually advise between 6 and 16
sessions, with attendance on a weekly basis. It isn't unusual for people to
come for a course of CBT and then return a year or so later for booster
sessions to reinforce or develop previous learning.

CBT is very much a collaborative approach, so the first stage of therapy is to
develop a shared understanding of your problem.  The first couple of sessions
will usually involve developing an overview of what is problematic in terms of
thoughts, feelings and behaviour, identifying vicious cycles, as well as a
consideration of the roots of the problem, how the past informs the present.
We can then map out a tailor made Treatment Plan, based on your hopes for
therapy and what is realistic within the agreed time frame. CBT is a proactive
therapy so further sessions will involve you learning skills and strategies
alongside values based goal setting and problem solving.  You will be supported
in actively practising these skills between sessions ready for further
reflection and fine tuning when you return. CBT is all about coaching people to
become their own therapist, so towards the end of therapy we will develop a
plan for handling setbacks and promoting emotional resilience. My nursing
background enables me to offer an holistic approach to your difficulties,
taking into account physical health conditions and the role of medications
prescribed for mood management.

## Testimonials

<blockquote>
Having suffered with OCD for 20 years I sought Cognitive Behavioural Therapy 
and Bridget came into my life as a blessing! She handled my situation with 
great care and empathy and used her extensive skills to teach me and guide me 
into dealing with my OCD and learning how to free myself from some of the 
debilitating symptoms that it causes. Bridget is professional and thorough and 
puts everything into helping you to heal yourself. She is compassionate yet 
tough when she knows that you need to be tough! She has given me tools & 
skills that enabled me to get my life back. She is incredible! If you need 
her, go and see her, you will be so thankful you did!
</blockquote>

_Lucy, Worcestershire_



